
# Building From Source

This software is built with the [EZRE](https://github.com/alex-free/ezre) build system. In the source directory, you may execute any of the following:

`make deps` - installs the build dependencies required to compile the program on x86_64 Linux or Mac OS. The host Linux distribution must have either the `dnf` or `apt` package manager for this to work. Mac OS hosts must have MacPorts installed.

`make` - creates an executable for the host system.

`make clean` - deletes only the generated executable file created by only executing `make`.

`make clean-build` - deletes the generated build directory in it's entirety.

`make all` - **generates all of the following:**

### For Windows 95 OSR 2.5 and above, Pentium CPU minimum (32 bit)

*   Windows i686 static executable file.
*   Portable Windows i386 release .zip file.

### For Windows x86_64 (64 bit)

*   Windows x86_64 static executable file.
*   Portable Windows x86_64 release .zip file.

### For Linux 3.2.0 and above, 386 CPU minimum (32 bit)

Note: Linux host required. Not generated by Mac OS hosts.

*   Linux i386 static executable file.
*   Portable Linux i386 release .zip file.
*   Linux i386 release .deb file for Debian based Linux distributions.
*   Linux i386 release .rpm file for Redhat based Linux distributions.

### For Linux 3.2.0 and above, x86_64 (64 bit)

Note: Linux host required. Not generated by Mac OS hosts.

*   Linux x86_64 static executable file.
*   Portable Linux x86_64 release .zip file.
*   Linux x86_64 release .deb file for Debian based Linux distributions.
*   Linux x86_64 release .rpm file for Redhat based Linux distributions.

All output is found in the `build` directory created in the source directory.

### For Mac OS, Any Arch

Note: Mac OS host required. Not generated by Linux hosts. Whatever arch your Mac is will be what's generated. In general any newer Mac OS version will work, but Mac OS 10.15 and newer doesn't support x86 executables and Mac OS X 10.6 is the last one that can run PowerPC executables (via Rosetta). 

*   Mac OS executable file.
*   Mac OS release .zip file.

All output is found in the `build` directory created in the source directory.
